Angular Style Guide (#211)
Wolox/tech-guides: frontend/angular/style-guide.md

    location: 'Carrera 30 # 7AA - 207',
    country: 'Colombia'
  },
  {
    id: 5,
    name: 'Santiago',
    location: 'Pérez Valenzuela 1635, piso 10 CP: 7500028',
    country: 'Chile'
  },
  {
    id: 6,
    name: 'Ciudad de México',
    location: 'Eugenio Sue 316',
    country: 'México'
  },
];
```

```ts
/* Service -> app.service.ts */
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

import { OFFICES } from './mock-data';

@Injectable()
export class AppService {
  getOffices() Promise<Office[]>  {
    return Promise.resolve(OFFICES);
  }
}
```

```ts
/* Component -> app.component.ts */
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

import { Office } from './app.interface';
import { AppService } from './app.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'wlx-root',
  template: `<pre>{{ offices | json }}</pre>`,
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.scss'],
  providers: [AppService],
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  offices: Office[] = [];

  constructor(private appService: AppService) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    this.appService.getOffices().then((offices) => (this.offices = offices));
  }
}
```

## Naming 

The correct naming is an important process for avoid clashing.

> Clashing mean that if you use third-party libraries avoid they are the same name, or conversely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clashing means that if you use third-party libraries avoid having the same name, or conversely.
```

Beside, some decorators require a necessary naming conventions for its selectors, such as:

```ts
// lowerCamelCase

@Pipe({
  name: 'appCoolPipe',
  ...
})
```

```ts
// lowerCamelCase

@Directive({
  selector: '[myCoolDirective]',
  ...
})
```

```ts
// kebab-case

@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool-component',
  ...
})
```

**Avoid**

```ts
// kebab-case

@Pipe({
  name: 'app-cool-pipe',
  ...
})
```

```ts
// kebab-case

@Directive({
  selector: '[my-cool-directive]',
  ...
})
```

```ts
// lowerCamelCase

@Component({
  selector: 'appCoolComponent',
  ...
})
```

## Without directly touching DOM

You should manipulate the elements of your app in Angular with the help of the Renderer2 class.

Permitting direct access to the DOM with ElementRef API can make your application more vulnerable to XSS attacks.

**Avoid** 

```ts
import { Directive, ElementRef, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[addCSSStyle]'
})
export class addCSSStyle implements OnInit {
  constructor(readonly el: ElementRef) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    this.el.nativeElement.style.color = 'blue';
  }
}
```

> **Note:** *The below examples are for custom directives, the idea is not replace behaviour of directives like ngClass or ngStyle.*  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** *The examples below are for custom directives, you should not replace the behaviour of directives like ngClass or ngStyle.*  
```

Use renderer2 for:

- Creating and appending DOM elements: createElement, createText and appendChild.

```ts
import { Directive, Renderer2, ElementRef, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[addNewElement]'
})
export class NewNodeDirective implements OnInit {
  constructor(
    private renderer2: Renderer2,
    private elementRef: ElementRef
  ) { }

  ngOnInit() {
    const pNode = this.renderer2.createElement('p');
    const txtNode = this.renderer.createText('A new text node');
    this.renderer2.appendChild(pNode, txtNode);
    this.renderer2.appendChild(this.elementRef.nativeElement, pNode);
  }
}
```

> - Dynamically setting and removing DOM attributes --> setAttribute and removeAttribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dynamically setting and removing DOM attributes: setAttribute and removeAttribute.
```

  constructor(
    private renderer2: Renderer2,
    private elementRef: ElementRef
  ) { }
  ngOnInit() {
    this.renderer2.setAttribute(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'aria-hidden', 'true');
  }
}s
```

- Dynamically adding and removing classes (on custom directives): addClass and removeClass.

```ts
import { Directive, Renderer2, ElementRef, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[applyCSSClass]'
})

export class ApplyClassDirective implements OnInit {
  constructor(
    private renderer2: Renderer2, 
    private elementRef: ElementRef
  ) { }

  ngOnInit() {
    this.renderer2.addClass(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'myClass')
  }

```

- Dyncamically setting and removing CSS styles: setStyle and removeStyle.

```ts
import { Directive, Renderer2, ElementRef, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
   selector: '[addCSSStyle]'
})

export class AddCSSStyleDirective implements OnInit {
  constructor(
    private renderer2: Renderer2,
    private elementRef: ElementRef
  ) { }

  ngOnInit() {
    this.renderer2.setStyle(
      this.elementRef.nativeElement,
      'background-color',
      'black'
    );
  }
}
```

> - setProperty for setting DOM properties like href of `<a>` elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Setting DOM properties like href of `<a>` elements: setProperty
```

│   │       │       └── specific-component.module.ts
│   │       ├── interfaces 
│   │       │   └── specific.interface.ts
│   │       ├── home.component.html
│   │       ├── home.component.scss
│   │       ├── home.component.spec.ts
│   │       ├── home.component.ts
│   │       ├── home-routing.module.ts
│   │       └── home.module.ts
│   └── services
│       ├── api.service.ts
│       └── local-store.service.ts
├── app-routing.module.ts
├── app.component.html
├── app.component.scss
├── app.component.spec.ts
├── app.component.ts
├── assets
├── config
├── environments
└── styles 
    ├── global.sccs
    └── base
        ├── buttons.sccs
        └── forms.sccs
```

**Considerations:** 
  - Make locating code intuitive, simple and fast
  - Create a module and routing for each screen (for lazy routing)
  - Each general component must have a module
  - Do not repeat elements like interfaces, enumerations or functions if they are used more than once, include them in the helpers folder

## Modules

A module can be easily loaded in different places in your app. Also, the modules can be isolated for [testing](https://angular.io/guide/testing#angular-testbed) as a code unit.

> The module concept is based on some rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module concept is based on these rules:
```

- Small features.
- Not injecting general services or external services.

A module can contain a Component, Directive or Pipe. The key is: _If you need to reuse any of them, you need a shared module._

### Module and Routing by screen

> A screen can contain some specific sections and components, so try to create module and routing.module by screen. Also remember in Angular the main concept is module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A screen can contain specific sections and components, so try to create a module and routing.module by screen. Keep in mind that in Angular the main concept is module.
```
Maybe instead of `the main concept is module` it should be `the main concept is modularization ` I think module is a specific object and modularization is the concept

Module for Home screen, this is very important for [lazy loading](#lazy-loading) and [separation of concerns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_concerns)

```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { CommonModule } from '@angular/common';

import { HomeComponent } from './home.component';
import { HomeRoutingModule } from './home-routing.module';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [ HomeComponent ],
  imports: [
    CommonModule,
    HomeRoutingModule
  ]
})
export class HomeModule {}
```

Routing module for Home screen
```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';

import { HomeComponent } from './home.component';
import { ResolverService } from './services/resolver.service'
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: HomeComponent,
    children: [
      {
        path: '**',
        redirectTo: ''
      }
    ]
  }
];

@NgModule({
  imports: [RouterModule.forChild(routes)],
  exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class HomeRoutingModule { }

```

## Lazy Loading

> When your app is growing, it will be more lazy for a complete initial launch. Then, lazy loading will speeds up the app load time by splitting it into multiple bundles and loading them on demand. But, for this we need the Router help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your app is growing, it will be more lazy for a complete initial launch. Then, lazy loading will speed up the app load time by splitting it into multiple bundles and loading them on demand. But, for this we need the Router help.
```

> The Lazy Loading load the module only when it enters the `home` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lazy Loading loads the module only when it enters the `home` path.
```

```ts
{
  path: 'home',
  loadChildren: () => import('somePath').then(m => m.myModule)
}
```

> The following way is considered Eager Loading and it will make the `MyComponent` component load without even entering the `home` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following way is considered Eager Loading and it will make `MyComponent` load without even entering the `home` path.
```

```ts
{
  path: 'home',
  component: MyComponent
}
```

Lazy loading is handled by routing system across whole application. And to achieve this, the `RouteModule` allows to use the following methods `forRoot()` and `forChild()` to compact each piece while loading by demand.

> There is only one `forRoot()` method and it will be used in the `AppModule` (or root module)

## Observables

> 1. Try using finite observables (take, first, etc ...) you don't need unsubscribe them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Try using finite observables (take, first, etc ...) you don't need to unsubscribe them.
```

> 2. When use infinite observalbles to unsubscribe use the [takeUntil(this.ngUnsubscribe)](https://medium.com/@berrow/angular-rxjs-unsubscribe-from-observables-729e1f3c5559) pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When using infinite observables, remember to unsubscribe using [takeUntil(this.ngUnsubscribe)](https://medium.com/@berrow/angular-rxjs-unsubscribe-from-observables-729e1f3c5559).
```

> 3. When using an api that returns Promises, convert them to observables first, using the [from](learnrxjs.io/learn-rxjs/operators/creation/from) operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. When using an api that returns Promises, convert them to observables first, using [from](learnrxjs.io/learn-rxjs/operators/creation/from).
```

4. Some nice [practices](https://medium.com/angular-in-depth/rx-js-best-practices-6a3b095ffb04) with **RxJS**

## Resolver by screen

> When you need calling multiples endpoints for a screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you need to call multiple endpoints in a screen
```

> **Avoid** calling these endpoints from component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Avoid** calling these endpoints from the component
```

  this.http.get(this.endpoints.office)
    .subscribe((data: Department[]) => this.departments = data);
}

// call service and assign this.techs
private getTechs() {
  this.http.get(this.endpoints.office)
    .subscribe((data: Tech[]) => this.techs = data);
}
```

**Try** using a resolver.

```ts
// resolver.service
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { HttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
import { Resolve } from '@angular/router';
import { Observable, combineLatest } from 'rxjs';
import { map, take } from 'rxjs/operators';

import { endpoints } from '@environments/endpoints';

@Injectable()
export class ResolverService implements Resolve<any> {

  constructor(readonly http: HttpClient) {}

  resolve(): Observable<any> {
    const data = [
      this.http.get(endpoints.offices),
      this.http.get(endpoints.woloxers),
      this.http.get(endpoints.departments),
      this.http.get(endpoints.techs),
    ];

    return combineLatest(data).pipe(
      take(1),
      map(resolvedData => {
        const [offices, woloxers, departments, techs] = resolvedData;
        return { offices, woloxers, departments, techs };
      })
    );
  }
}
```

> In your component.ts call resolver and un ngUnsubscribe pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your component.ts call resolver and ngUnsubscribe pattern.
```

import { Subject } from 'rxjs';
import { takeUntil } from 'rxjs/operators';

import { Office, Woloxer, Department, Tech } from '@interfaces/generic.inteface';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-home',
  templateUrl: './home.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./home.component.scss']
})
export class HomeComponent implements OnInit, OnDestroy {
  readonly ngUnsubscribe: Subject<void> = new Subject();
  offices: Office[] = [];
  woloxers: Woloxer[] = [];
  departments: Department[] = [];
  techs: Tech[] = [];
  constructor(readonly route: ActivatedRoute){ }

  ngOnInit() {
    this.getData();
  }

  ngOnDestroy() {
    this.ngUnsubscribe.next();
    this.ngUnsubscribe.complete();
  }

  private getData() {
    this.route.data.pipe(takeUntil(this.ngUnsubscribe)).subscribe(data => {
      const { offices, woloxers, departments, techs } = data;
      this.offices = offices;
      this.woloxers =  woloxers;
      this.departments = departments;
      this.techs = techs;
    });
  heroes: Hero[] = [];

  constructor(private AppService: AppService) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    this.AppService.getHeroes().then((heroes) => (this.heroes = heroes));
  }
}
```

> In `routing.module` add resolver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `routing.module` add a resolver
```

```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';

import { HomeComponent } from './home.component';
import { ResolverService } from './services/resolver.service' // new line
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: HomeComponent,
    children: [
      {
        path: '**',
        redirectTo: ''
      }
    ],
    resolve: { resolved: ResolverService }, // new line
    runGuardsAndResolvers: 'always' // new line
  }
];

@NgModule({
  imports: [RouterModule.forChild(routes)],
  exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class HomeRoutingModule { }

```

And finally provider service on Home.module
```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { CommonModule } from '@angular/common';

import { HomeComponent } from './home.component';
import { HomeRoutingModule } from './home-routing.module';
import { ResolverService } from './services/resolver.service'; // new line

@NgModule({
  declarations: [ HomeComponent ],
  imports: [
    CommonModule,
    HomeRoutingModule
  ],
  providers: [ResolverService] // new line
})
export class HomeModule {}
```

## Access modifiers

> - If your properties are using in the template, then they cannot be privates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If your properties are being used in the template, then they cannot be privates.
```

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool',
  template: `<div>I'm {{ name }}</div>`,
})
export class AppComponent {
  name = 'wolox';
}
```

**Avoid**

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool',
  template: `<div>I'm {{ name }}</div>`,
})
export class AppComponent {
  private name = 'wolox';
}
```

> > That's applied conversely, namely, if you don't use the properties in the template, they **must** be `private`. When your app is in production mode, Ahead-of-Time compilation wont allow it's visibility in the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> That's applied conversely, namely, if you don't use the properties in the template, they **must** be `private`. When your app is in production mode, Ahead-of-Time compilation won't allow it's visibility in the template.
```

- If your property is not mutated at all in your class, then it **must be** `readonly`.

## Properties order

- decorators
  - inputs
  - outputs
  - others
- public properties
- public readonly properties
- private properties
- private readonly properties
- setter and getter properties (accessors)
  - public
  - private

```ts

> @Component({
>   selector: 'app-cool',
>   template: `<div>I'm a nice App</div>`,
> })
> export class AppComponent {
>   @Input() foo;
>   @Ouput() fooChange = new EventEmiter();
>   isCool = true;
>   private name = 'wolox';
>   readonly place = 'world';
> 
>   get woo() {
>     return this.anyValue;
>   }
> 
>   set woo(value) {
>     this.anyValue = value;
>   }
> 
>   constructor() {}
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool',
  template: `<div>I'm a nice App</div>`,
})
export class AppComponent {
  @Input() foo;
  @Ouput() fooChange = new EventEmiter();
  isCool = true;
  private name = 'wolox';
  readonly place = 'world';

  constructor() {}
 
   lifeCycles() {} 
 
  get woo() {
    return this.anyValue;
  }

  set woo(value) {
    this.anyValue = value;
  }

otherMethods() {}
}
```

Reviewer: I like this structure order. What do you think? @CrisVega08

Reviewer 3: So... will we consider accessor properties like methods by a visual concept?

Author: I think methods and accessor are different and Angular interprets these in different ways, so I prefer the way we defined

Author: OK @FrankIglesias  and @LucasZibell , I would like know why do you prefer after lifecycles ?

Reviewer: I think that what Frank proposes allows you to have all the logic in the same place. Allowing you to rappidly navigate through the code. Maybe in the example given above the logic is very simple as it is just a return or an assign. But for example, in cases more complex like this `this._name = (name && name.trim()) || '<no name set>';` given in the Angular [Doc](https://angular.io/guide/component-interaction) it allows you to have all the logic compress in near lines of the code.
For the question of why after or before the lyfecycles i think it is a nice order having into account the life of a component. You can have it like this:
```
Component {
-> First the state
-> Contructor
--- Now here will start the logic of the component ---
-> Lifecycle // This will allow you to see how the component will react after it is contructed, what will be its behavior when it ts mounted/created/destroyed
-> Getters and setters // Here you will have the logic according to the access or setting of a specifici state
-> Other methods // Logic specific of the component, will be the methods to which it will respond
}
``` 
I don't agree with Beto in saying it will be visually a method, as all the getters and setters start with `get/set` making a very clear difference between an accessor and a method. The question now could be if this accessors go before or after the lifecylce, as i said and explain above in my point of view it will be better to have them afterwards, keeping all the lifecycle together with the constructor.

Author: Ok I understood you idea, I prefer before lifecycle because:

1. When you set or reset data-bound input properties angular responds with lifecycle ngOnChanges.
2. I see getters into middle between properties and methods

```

**Avoid**

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool',
  template: `<div>I'm a nice App</div>`,
})
export class AppComponent {
  get woo() {
    return this.anyValue;
  }

  set woo(value) {
    this.anyValue = value;
  }

  private name = 'wolox';
  isCool = true;
  readonly place = 'world';
  @Ouput() fooChange = new EventEmiter();
  @Input() foo;

  constructor() {}
}
```

## Components communication and interaction

   1. Two-Way Data Binding (Banana In a Box [🍌]).
   2. Decorators instead of properties of the Metadata.
   3. Operations in the Template.
   

#### 1) Two-Way Data Binding (Banana In a Box [🍌]).

To achieve this, you must add `Change` suffix to `@Output()` name, and the same name as the `@Input()`.

```html
<my-comp [(prop)]="val"> </my-comp>
```

This is the syntax for Two-way binding, namely, the property binding and event binding:

```html
<my-comp [prop]="val" (propChange)="val=$event"> </my-comp>
```

**Avoid**

```html
<my-comp [prop]="val" (prop)="val=$event"> </my-comp>
```

#### 2) Decorators instead of properties of the Metadata.

> The Component and Directive decorators have some particularity, they receive configurations in its metadata you could write ans manage more easily in the class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Component and Directive decorators have some particularity, they receive configurations in its metadata you could write and manage them easier in the class.
```

```ts
@[Component|Directive]({
  inputs: [[enums]],
  outputs: [[enums]],
  hosts: [[enums]]
})
```

This configuration is poorly readable. It's preferable to use the corresponding decorators.

- `@Inputs()`
- `@Outputs()`
- `@HostBinding()`
- `@HostListener()`

#### 3) Operations in the Template.

The Operators in the template are often confusing. Use getters and your code will be cleaner and more declarative.

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool',
  template: `<div>The result is {{ nicerResult }}</div>`,
})
export class AppComponent {
  @Input() foo;

  get nicerResult() {
    return (this.foo * 32) / 10 + 300;
  }

  constructor() {}
}
```

**Avoid**

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool',
  template: `<div>The result is {{ (foo * 32) / 10 + 300 }}</div>`,
})
export class AppComponent {
  @Input() foo;

  constructor() {}
}
```

## Aliasing inputs and outputs

> **Avoid** input and output aliases except when it serves an important purpose.

Reviewer: Can we add an example of an `important purpose `?

Author: I going to remove this part

  ngOnInit() {
    this.el.nativeElement.style.color = 'blue';
  }
}
```

We suggest use renderer2 for:

- Creating and appending DOM elements: createElement, createText and appendChild.

```ts
import { Directive, Renderer2, ElementRef, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[addNewElement]'
})
export class NewNodeDirective implements OnInit {
  constructor(
    private renderer2: Renderer2,
    private elementRef: ElementRef
  ) { }

  ngOnInit() {
    const pNode = this.renderer2.createElement('p');
    const txtNode = this.renderer.createText('A new text node');
    this.renderer2.appendChild(pNode, txtNode);
    this.renderer2.appendChild(this.elementRef.nativeElement, pNode);
  }
}
```

- Dynamically setting and removing DOM attributes --> setAttribute and removeAttribute.

```ts
import { Directive, Renderer2, ElementRef, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[addAttribute]'
})

export class AddAttributeDirective implements OnInit {
  constructor(
    private renderer2: Renderer2,
    private elementRef: ElementRef
  ) { }
  ngOnInit() {
    this.renderer2.setAttribute(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'aria-hidden', 'true');
  }
}s
```

> - Dynamically adding and removing classes: addClass and removeClass.

Author: Ok, The idea is use always directives ngClass and ngStyle but if you have to do a custom directive --> try using Renderer 2, I'm going to add a comment.

Module for Home screen, this is very important for [loazy loading](https://angular.io/guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules) and [separation of concerns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_concerns)

```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { CommonModule } from '@angular/common';

import { HomeComponent } from './home.component';
import { HomeRoutingModule } from './home-routing.module';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [ HomeComponent ],
  imports: [
    CommonModule,
    HomeRoutingModule
  ]
})
export class HomeModule {}
```

Routing module for Home screen
```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';

import { HomeComponent } from './home.component';
import { ResolverService } from './services/resolver.service'
const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: HomeComponent,
    children: [
      {
        path: '**',
        redirectTo: ''
      }
    ]
  }
];

@NgModule({
  imports: [RouterModule.forChild(routes)],
  exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class HomeRoutingModule { }

```

> ## Lazy Loading

Author: We added some content but in next pr we are going to extend the explication

@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool',
  template: `<div>I'm a nice App</div>`,
})
export class AppComponent {
  @Input() foo;
  @Ouput() fooChange = new EventEmiter();
  isCool = true;
  private name = 'wolox';
  readonly place = 'world';

  get woo() {
    return this.anyValue;
  }

  set woo(value) {
    this.anyValue = value;
  }

  constructor() {}
}
```

**Avoid**

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-cool',
  template: `<div>I'm a nice App</div>`,
})
export class AppComponent {
  get woo() {
    return this.anyValue;
  }

  set woo(value) {
    this.anyValue = value;
  }

  private name = 'wolox';
  isCool = true;
  readonly place = 'world';
  @Ouput() fooChange = new EventEmiter();
  @Input() foo;

  constructor() {}
}
```

## Communication and interaction of components

   1. Two-Way Data Binding (Banana In a Box [🍌]).
   2. Decorators instead of properties of the Metadata.
   3. Operations in the Template.
   

#### 1) Two-Way Data Binding (Banana In a Box [🍌]).

```html
<my-comp [(prop)]="val"> </my-comp>
```

This is the systax for Two-way binding, namely, the property binding and event binding:

```html
<my-comp [prop]="val" (propChange)="val=$event"> </my-comp>
```

> For achieve this, you must add `Change` suffix to `@Output()` name, and the same name as the `@Input()`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To achieve this, you must add `Change` suffix to `@Output()` name, and the same name as the `@Input()`.
```
